tutorial (#883)
dotansimha/graphql-yoga: website/tutorial/basic/04-a-simple-query.mdx

---
id: 04-a-simple-query
title: A simple Query
sidebar_label: A simple Query
---

In this section, you are going to implement the first GraphQL object types and fields that provides the functionality of a Hacker News
clone for querying a feed of _links_ that were posted by other users.

### Extending the schema definition

Let's start by implementing a `feed` field on the `Query` root types which allows retriving a list of `Link` elements. In general, when
adding a new feature to the GraphQL Schema, the process will look pretty similar every time:

> 1. Extend the GraphQL schema definition (SDL) with a new _root field_ (or new _object types_ and fields, if needed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Extend the GraphQL schema definition (SDL) with a new _root field_ (`Query`, `Mutation`) and new _object types_ and fields, if needed
```

> If you wish to read more about GraphQL and nullability, go ahead to [GraphQL official documentation](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#lists-and-non-null).

### Implement resolver functions

The next step is to implement the resolver function for the `feed` query field. In fact, one thing we haven't mentioned yet is
that not only _root fields_, but virtually _all_ fields on the types in a GraphQL schema have resolver functions. So,
you'll add resolver functions for the `id`, `description`, and `url` fields of the `Link` type as well.

<Instruction>

In `src/schema.ts`, add a new list with dummy data as well and update the `resolvers` to look as follows:

```typescript
// 1
type Link = {
  id: string
  url: string
  description: string
}

// 2
const links: Link[] = [
  {
    id: 'link-0',
    url: 'https://graphql-yoga.com',
    description: 'The easiest way of setting up a GraphQL server',
  },
]

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    info: () => `This is the API of a Hackernews Clone`,
    // 3
    feed: () => links,
  },
  // 4

>   Link: {

Reviewer: we could mention that the resolve, in this scenario, can be done at the parent level since the fields are not computed but directly fetched from the object

Author: Not sure if I understand this correctly, but we should explain default field resolver behavior?

Author: added to https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-yoga/issues/916

    id: (parent: Link) => parent.id,
    description: (parent: Link) => parent.description,
    url: (parent: Link) => parent.url,
  },
}
```

</Instruction>

Let's walk through the numbered comments again:

1. The `Link` type defines the TypeScript object structure that we wish to use in our code.
1. The `links` variable is used to store the links at runtime. For now, everything is stored only _in-memory_ rather
   than being persisted in a database.
1. You're adding a new resolver for the `feed` root field. Notice that a resolver always has to be named _exactly_ after
   the corresponding field from the schema definition.
1. Finally, you're adding three more resolvers for the fields on the `Link` type from the schema definition. We'll
   discuss what the `parent` argument that's passed into the resolver here is in a bit.

> Go ahead and test the implementation by running the server and navigate to `http://localhost:3000/graphql` in your browser. If you expand

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go ahead and test the implementation by running the server and navigate to `http://localhost:4000/graphql` in your browser. If you expand
```

the documentation of the GraphiQL, you'll notice that another field on the root `Query` object type called `feed` is now available:

> ![another `Query` root type field called feed](https://i.imgur.com/k60k4BC.png)

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can update the screenshot with `dark:mode`?
